news: write a blog post about the 2.44 release (#21)
WebKitGTK/webkitgtk.org: _posts/2024-03-25-webkigit-2.44.md

### Improved accessibility support with GTK4

One of the main missing pieces for accessibility in the GTK4 port was being able to connect the accessibility tree for the web content to the rest of the hierarchy exposed by GTK4 to accessibility technologies. During this cycle [Georges Stavracas](https://feaneron.com) coordinated with the GTK developers to add new API that WebKitGTK now uses to expose the accessibility tree of the web content. While there are still improvements to be made, fixing this unblocks further developments.

The existing accesibility support for GTK3 continues to work as before.

### WebKit's DisplayLink support

DisplayLink is a WebCore feature that improves resource utilization and improves synchronization with vertical screen retrace. 2.44 adds an implementation of this feature for the GTK port that improves rendering performance.

### Improved hardware-acceleration video decoding and rendering

> If using GStreamer 1.24 or newer, the DMA-BUF sink supports DRM modifiers, which allow zero-copy negotiation with video decoders. This improves video decoding and rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installations using GStreamer 1.24 or newer can take advantage of new support of DRM modifiers by the DMA-BUF sink. This improves video decoding and rendering because it allows zero-copy negotiation with the video decoders. 
```

### WebCodec API supported

WebKitGTK now supports the [WebCodecs API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebCodecs_API), which allows web developers low-level access to video frames and audio chunks, a feature of importance for multimedia applications that need finer grain control over what gets played on the browser.

### Other noteworthy changes

> * JPEG2000 support has been removed, and OpenJPEG is no longer a dependency.

Reviewer: I think it could be better in a more narrative way. Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
* JPEG2000 support has been removed. WebKit was the only web engine supporting JPEG2000, and the format was known to used only on a few websites. Those files were served only to WebKit based browsers, and some of them no longer exists or started to serve WebP instead. As a consequence of JPEG2000 removal, OpenJPEG is no longer a dependency. The removal helps focus the maintenance where is really needed.
```
